---
layout: feature
title: ACS AEM Commons Utils
description: A collection of common utils
date: 2013-06-30 23:39:29
thumbnail: /images/default/thumbnail.png
categories: features
initial-release: 1.0.0
---

h2. Purpose

Provide common utility functionality across projects.

h2. Overview

The best overview are the "ACS AEM Commons Utils JavaDocs":{{ site.baseurl }}/apidocs/com/adobe/acs/commons/util/package-summary.html.

Characteristics of the ACS AEM Commons Utils are:

* Static Java classes
* Do *NOT* have mutable state
* Do *NOT* have inherent access to OSGi/JCR/Sling context and typically do not require it
** Any required context must be passed into the utility method

h2. ACS AEM Commons Utils List

- @CookieUtil@ := Creation, deletion and modification of HTTP Cookies
- @OsgiPropertyUtil@ := Parsing OSGi component property String values into "complex" data structures (usually Maps or Key/Value pairs)
- @PathInfoUtil@ := Getting values from a HTTP Request's Path and Query Params
- @ResourceDataUtil@ :=
Gets less-common data renditions from Resources including:
* Getting the rendition of a resource as a @String@
* Getting a @InputStream@ representation of a @nt:file@
* Getting a @String@ representation of a @nt:file@
=:

- @TemplateUtil@ := Utility methods for working with CQ Templates.

- @TextUtil@ := Gets default values, non-blank values. See also "CQ TextUtils":http://dev.day.com/docs/en/cq/current/javadoc/com/day/text/TextUtils.html and "Apache Commons StringUtils":http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-lang/apidocs/org/apache/commons/lang3/StringUtils.html.

- @TypeUtil@ := Intelligently determines Java object types and converts between types (including "unusual" transformations like Array to Map)

- @ThreadContextClassLoaderTaskExecutor@ (since 1.5.0) := Execute a task (using the @Callabale@ interface) after setting the Thread Context ClassLoader, and then resetting it upon completion of the task.