---
layout: feature
title: Custom Widgets
description: Improve your dialogs
date: 2013-08-10 23:39:29
thumbnail: /images/widgets/ddpathfield.png
categories: features
---

## Drag-and-Drop Path Field (Since 1.1.0)

The `ddpathfield` widget is a drop-in replacement for the standard [`pathfield`](http://dev.day.com/docs/en/cq/current/widgets-api/index.html?class=CQ.form.PathField) widget. It supports all the same capabilities of the `pathfield` and adds the ability to drag-and-drop pages and assets from the Content Finder. It works both by itself and within a `multifield`.

By default, the will accept either pages or assets. This behavior can be restricted by setting the `ddGroups` configuration property to one or more of the `DD_GROUP` constants from [`CQ.wcm.EditBase`](http://dev.day.com/docs/en/cq/current/widgets-api/index.html?class=CQ.wcm.EditBase):

* `media`
* `page`
* `editcomponent`
* `default`
* `paragraph`
* `product`

## Additional Search Predicates (Since 1.0.0)

These additional search predicate widgets are available for use in the SiteAdmin and DAM Admin Search Panels:

* `authorizablepredicate` - Select a user or group, e.g. to search for assets who were last modified by a particular user.
* `selectionpredicate` - Select a value from a drop down list.
* `pathpropertypredicate` - Use a path field to select a path and then search for property values matching that path.

### Configuration Options

#### Authorizable Predicate

Configuration Options:

* `propertyName` - Name of property for search. Defaults to `jcr:content/jcr:lastModifiedBy`
* `predicateName` - QueryBuilder predicate name. Defaults to `property`
* `filter` - Authorizable type filter. Can be `groups` or `users` (defaults to `users`)

#### Selection Predicate

Configuration Options:

* `propertyName` - Name of property for search.
* `predicateName` - QueryBuilder predicate name. Defaults to `property`
* `options` - See `options` on [`CQ.form.Selection`](http://dev.day.com/docs/en/cq/current/widgets-api/?class=CQ.form.Selection)

#### Path Property Predicate

Configuration Options:


* `propertyName` - Name of property for search.
* `predicateName` - QueryBuilder predicate name. Defaults to `property`.
* `rootPath` - Root path for path selection. Defaults to `/content`.
* `pathFieldPredicateName` - See `predicate` on [`CQ.form.PathField`](http://dev.day.com/docs/en/cq/current/widgets-api/?class=CQ.form.PathField)

